As was true in the first century,
many who are “rightly disposed
for everlasting life” are becoming believers.
This truly is the case
in the countries of Argentina, Paraguay,
and Uruguay.
The work in these three countries
is cared for
by the branch offices
in Argentina and Paraguay.
Faith and I had the privilege
of visiting these branches
on a branch visit in March 2018.
Both branches have beautiful Bethel families
who are working hard
to support the activity in the field.
Among the work taking place,
these branches take care of the translation
of spiritual food
into 11 languages.
They are also busy building, renovating,
and maintaining Kingdom Halls
and caring for the needs
of the congregations.
In Argentina, a new branch facility
is being built
to help further simplify
the work of the branch
so that even more attention can be given
to the field.
Eleven brothers serve
on the Branch Committee in Argentina,
and six brothers serve
on the Branch Committee in Paraguay.
These loyal and faithful men are working hard
to support the Governing Body,
and they are looking for ways
to find even more
who want to learn about Jehovah.
The result of their hard work
and Jehovah’s blessing is most evident.
In 2017, over 200 percent
of the 173,000 publishers
in these three countries
attended the Memorial.
In the past ten years, over 55,000 persons
have been baptized.
That is the equivalent of 15 persons baptized
every day of the week
for the past ten years!
There is also a fine zeal
for the preaching work.
Just in the last year alone,
the number of pioneers increased
by about 16 percent
and nearly 2.8 million more hours
were put in in the ministry.
Both branches have organized
special preaching campaigns
to reach those in unassigned territories
or to reach indigenous populations.
These initiatives have had much success.
For the first time,
publications were translated into Nivaclé,
a language spoken
by a sizable indigenous population.
To distribute the literature,
a campaign was organized
in the northern territory of Paraguay
called El Chaco.
In one location, the brothers talked
with the head of the community,
and he was very happy
to see publications in his own language.
When he saw one of our videos in Nivaclé,
he started to cry.
He called his entire family
to watch the video
and asked for a Bible study for himself
and his family.
When the brothers asked if they could have
a meeting
in the community, he agreed and even offered
to invite all the people to the meeting.
One brother who shared in the campaign
to work unassigned and seldom-worked
territory in Paraguay wrote,
“People showed so much interest
in the good news that it was very difficult
to end conversations
and go to another house.”
In some places, people spread
the news of their visits by word of mouth.
So when our brothers and sisters
arrived in a territory,
they found that many householders
already had prepared chairs,
waiting for them to arrive.
Some householders invited them for lunch,
offered lodging,
and even offered part of their property
to build a meeting place.
A man who was the owner of a little store
was enjoying what he was hearing
about the Kingdom message so much
that when some customers arrived to shop,
he told them: “Now I am very busy.
If you need something, come back later.”
In Buenos Aires, Argentina,
one afternoon while in the ministry,
two sisters approached a house
that was listed in the territory records
as a possible address
for a Romani Kalderash speaker.
A 14-year-old Romani girl
ran out to them and asked,
“Are you Jehovah’s Witnesses?”
When they replied that they were,
she exclaimed,
“Jehovah sent you!”
She explained that she was
from the southernmost tip of South America.
She’d been studying the Bible
with her neighbor,
but her family was very opposed
and took her Bible
and Bible Teach  book away.
Even so, she would secretly sneak away
three times a week to meet her neighbor
and continue her Bible study.
When her family found out
that she was still studying,
they decided to send her
about 3,000 kilometers,
or 1,800 miles, away to Buenos Aires
so that she would not be able to contact
the Witness
whom she was studying with anymore.
When her Bible teacher heard
that she was being sent far away,
she wrote a letter to the young girl,
saying that no matter where she ended up,
she should keep praying to Jehovah
and try to find the Witnesses.
After relating the story,
the young girl asked,
“Were you sent by my teacher,
or were you just preaching
from house to house?”
The sisters replied,
saying that they were preaching in the area,
looking for Romani Kalderash speakers.
They then asked the girl
how long she had been in Buenos Aires.
She said: “I arrived today!
“What I just told you happened today!
“I left this morning,
and after arriving here,
“I started to pray to Jehovah.
When I opened my eyes,
I saw you standing at my door.”
Arrangements were made
to follow up on her interest.
In Argentina, the branch reached a milestone
in the Wichí language
by translating
the Become Jehovah’s Friend  videos.
The response was beyond expectations.
Children and adults alike were amazed
to see the characters
speaking in their native tongue.
As a result of this project, the Wichí people
feel that they are not forgotten by Jehovah,
and this helps their love for him
to grow even more.
Even those in prison are being reached
with the good news
and are taking a stand for the truth.
Consider the experience of Jesús Wekid.
Formerly, he was considered
a dangerous inmate.
In fact, the prison kept him guarded
by a whole security team.
Yet, others now view him
as completely the opposite.
Brother Wekid is serving a 50-year sentence,
of which he is now in his 6th year.
Last May, he went through
what was probably
the biggest test of his faith yet.
His former friends proposed the idea
that through some illegal means
he could get out of prison
and do the rest of the time in home custody.
Making the right decision
was very difficult for Brother Wekid,
as this would have meant
that he could be with his beloved family,
some of whom are also Witnesses.
After consulting with his family
with many tears, he decided
to serve out the rest of his sentence
in prison,
giving a great witness to his former friends,
non-Witness family members,
and all of the prison inmates.
He gave up his freedom
to put his relationship with Jehovah first.
Now Jesús has found joy
even despite his current circumstances.
He conducts six Bible studies
and witnesses from cell to cell.
In one of the general areas of the prison,
he displays the publications
during the visitation days
for the families of the inmates,
with very positive results.
It was so encouraging to see
the outstanding young brothers and sisters
in these countries
and their desire to do more for Jehovah.
Many are learning new languages,
going to the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
reaching out for Bethel service,
and working with
their Local Design/Construction Department
to help build, renovate,
and maintain Kingdom Halls.
This is Leandro Támula on the left
and Ary Navarro on the right.
Ary was part of a family
that was truly passionate for football,
or soccer.
It was Ary’s dream
to be a part of the national team someday.
Ary excelled at the sport
and received offers
from two national football teams.
These were especially tempting offers
because these were his two favorite teams.
Even though it was a hard decision for him
because of his passion for the sport,
he had already decided to serve Jehovah
and he turned down the offers.
Leandro had a similar test
but with a different sport.
Leandro excelled at basketball
and received an offer
to play for the national team,
which included a chance
to play internationally.
He realized
that he could not serve two masters.
After watching the video Young People Ask
—What Will I Do With My Life?
he made the decision to serve Jehovah.
Both of these young men serve together
at the branch in Argentina.
They feel that the decisions they have made
have brought them
so much happiness and fulfillment in life.
They say that they are receiving
much more satisfaction
than a life in sports
would have ever provided.
These are just a few of the many experiences
of the outstanding brothers and sisters
serving in these countries.
In addition to organizing
the work in the field,
the members of the Branch Committee
and Bethel families
are themselves active in the field ministry.
While on the visit, we had the opportunity
to engage in the ministry
in both countries with them
and had a very encouraging time.
Additionally, we had the privilege
of having two meetings,
with a combined attendance of nearly 200,000.
We were greatly encouraged by hearing reports
of the work in these countries
and were reminded of the privilege we have
to be part of this incredible organization.
The many brothers and sisters
in Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay
count it a privilege to work with you
“shoulder to shoulder”
in helping all those who are streaming
to the house of Jehovah.
Like you, they are joyfully keeping busy
in the exciting work going on in our branches
and in the field in these last days.